---
title: "New Publication: DClEVerNet: Deep Combinatorial Learning for Efficient EV Charging Scheduling in Large-scale Networked Facilities, E-Energy 2023"
excerpt: "ACM E-Energy 2023"
layout: post
category: announcements
---


# Abstract
With the electrification of transportation, the rising uptake of electric vehicles (EVs)
might stress distribution networks significantly, leaving their performance degraded and stability jeopardized. In order to accommodate these new loads cost-effectively, modern power grids require coordinated or 
"smart" charging strategies capable of optimising EV charging scheduling in a scalable and efficient fashion. With this in view, the present work focuses on reservation management programs for large-scale, networked EV charging stations. We formulate _a time-coupled binary optimization_ problem that maximizes EV users' total welfare gain while accounting for the network's available power capacity and stations' occupancy limits. To tackle the problem at scale while retaining high solution quality, a data-driven optimization framework combining techniques from the fields of Deep Learning and Approximation Algorithms is introduced. The framework's key ingredient is a novel input-output processing scheme for neural networks that allows _direct extrapolation_ to problem sizes substantially larger than those included in the training set. Extensive numerical simulations based on synthetic as well as real-world data traces verify the effectiveness and superiority of the presented approach over two representative scheduling algorithms. Lastly, we round up the contributions by listing several immediate extensions to the proposed framework and outlining the prospects for further exploration

>Bushra Alshehhi, Areg Karapetyan, Khaled Elbassioni, Sid Chi-Kin Chau,  Majid Khonji (2023). “DClEVerNet: Deep Combinatorial Learning for Efficient EV Charging Scheduling in Large-scale Networked Facilities.” ACM International Conference on Future Energy Systems (e-Energy), Florida, US.

